all right hello everyone welcome to the
January 23 I believe 2019 meeting of the
offline and local collaboration working
group in the IPS community so excited to
have you all here figured we'd spend the
beginning again doing intros we're kind
of still forming our community so want
to make sure that we each know the
places people are coming from and then
we have an update on our q1 okay ours to
talk about kind of any in-flight work
that's happening and make sure that
we're aligned we're trying to finalize
okay ours right now and then I'm some
time talking about some notable movement
in the ecosystem that we've been seeing
stuff that's getting us excited and then
if anyone has updates from other areas
of the world I see that Krista had just
joined us and I think it would be useful
for people to talk a little bit more
about areas that they're excited about
in kind of offline plus IP FS any
intersections there or just in general
exciting work that's happening in like
the offline local first ecosystem so I'm
good if there's any other agenda items I
will riad the talk to the chat so feel
free to jump in there and add any other
agenda items that people think would be
useful but let's start with intros
interests and interests I'm Molly I'm
captain of the local offline
collaboration working group and I'm
super excited about how we can use IP FS
and similarly distributed technology to
help people in places with poor internet
connectivity
get access to all of our knowledge that
exists on the internet and use it to
collaborate and work together without
having to go over these really long haul
internet connections in order to share
content with each other so that's me
dominic you want to go next sure I'm
Dominic I work for protocol apps mostly
on go ipfs basically going to just mimic
what Molly said they're super stressed
out personally whenever all flying
things don't work and you know they
there's no reason they shouldn't so I'm
trying to work towards that and also see
what other people are
to work towards that effort so that's me
cool Jim you want to give a blurb
I'm working on pure pad and we're
wouldn't over tasks is to make it work
offline I've built some offline web
stuff before with that project so I can
talk about that as well awesome Jonathan
yeah so I'm Jonathan I've been working
on my own kind of like Internet in the
backpack project vacuous and I'm also
another project that's doing like
disaster recovery communications tools
and then I'm just like pretty active on
scuttlebutt and experimenting with like
local art communities in New York City
and how offline first and like
peer-to-peer power structures affect
those communities and help them
awesome thanks for coming back huh well
you wanna Cooper we're doing right
yeah we're saying intro it's kind of how
we're we're engaged and excited about
that us and offline communities any
intersection or non intersection awesome
so this is Rob from the Liberty bTW I'm
very interested in applying for a very
long time in my final year project I
built a university as was 13 years ago I
think I'd build a social network that
revolved around Bluetooth for mobile
devices use a j2me back at the time and
really old Sony Ericsson devices and
very bad programming environment for
those so it was pretty fun at that used
web site use web services and at the
time and RDF and full to create profiles
of the impulses that you are having with
people cross them with your calendar
events and then contextualise those
encounters and upload them to sort of
like a social network to create a social
graph without any user just by user
encounters so this is like the my in the
project that in the past is a bit more
relevant to this area but another thing
that I would like to try to do here is
basically represent that beauty because
the p2p is going to be extremely
important part and a crucial part of
everything that we've got this working
group plans to develop so I'd like to
sort of like be that person maybe not
gateway between the pizza peon and this
way for you guys awesome fantastic Harry
do you wanna give a intro sure my name
is Terry Chadbourne I work at protocol
labs as a community manager and a big
chunk of my role there it's as a
maintainer for proto school which is a
community that is trying to introduce
people to decentralized web concepts and
a really friendly and inviting and
beginner friendly way and I also in the
near future will be managing a medium
publication that will have a place to
share some use cases and stories about
the decentralized web so that's one
thing I think we could do in this group
is to tell some of those
to kind of spread the good word so I'd
be happy to help with that um but I
actually know a lot more about offline
first than I do about decentralized I'm
a co-organizer of an event called
offline camp which is sort of a tech
retreat for people who are excited about
making stuff work offline and in crappy
network game conditions so that includes
some people who care about decentralized
some funny who don't and everyone's
welcome and just sort of more broadly as
an organizer for that offline first
community I do manage a publication in
that space as well which is also a place
as we wait for the other pub to get set
up that we can also tell some of those
online first stories so I'm around if
anybody has too much to tell feel free
to ping me absolutely thank you Arkady
you want to give a quick intro yes hi so
yeah I work at a vertical mostly as a
collaborations manager person but I also
help out on tear pad so when Jim works
on and we've definitely making pushes to
get it working offline if we had some
previous recent so very happy about that
also Jonathan I just follow me on
Twitter and I shocked that I didn't
already it seems like we should be like
very connected to link New York tech
world like SF PC pretty so that's them
so nice to meet you awesome forming new
connections already fantastic
Chrissa are you in a place where you can
unmute and give us an intro and talk a
little bit about what your organization
works on hi my name is Karissa a project
lead for the dot project and for the
past year so well just a quick for the
dot project is like a peer-to-peer
sharing protocol similar to ipfs um I've
been working with digital democracy
primarily for the past year and a half
we deploy a desktop application and
mobile application that is decentralized
and offline for communities in Peru and
Ecuador mostly they're also trying to
expand into Colombian Brazil
Katie and Jana as well as parts of
Africa
so our tools work mostly offline mmm
they require some like initial setup but
most of it is just laptops and mobile
phones only there are no like servers or
anything you have to setup no backpacks
kids carry anything like that just just
the devices themselves they talk to each
other over mdns and so basically we're
just trying to get a bit of a picture
what other people are doing in the space
and seeing how our technology might
interface with things like p2p or other
kinds of tech that are trying to do the
same thing seems like there's a lot of
overlap awesome cool excited to have you
in this farm as well so let's let's
spend a little bit more time I think in
kind of the later half of this meeting
talking about kind of like opportunities
to work together or any more specific
questions that come out from there but
also wanted to spend some time quickly
looking over the queuing okay ours that
we've drafted for ourselves to make sure
that feel good about them it's working
group if there's any other things that
kind of are coming up that people feel
like they're prioritizing this quarter
again we're kind of an open forum we're
happy to bring in more key results that
people are going to be delivering and
that are aligned with the work we're
trying to do so let me just share my
screen really quickly mm all right can
folks can folks see our local offline
collab okay our sheet yes is it readable
is it too tiny I can make it yeah that's
cool so we kind of have three main
buckets in our in our okrs right now
which are really kind of related to the
charter of this working group which is
one forming our community and presence
and we're actually we already have kind
of one reference to material that we've
published as a working group that's kind
of getting good visibility which is a
talk I gave it the London ipfs a meet-up
last quarter which we pub
to YouTube like two weeks ago now that's
gotten 93 views as of when I checked
this morning so you know slowly
percolating into the world people are
starting to get a sense of what we're
thinking of and that hopefully is also a
route through which they actually come
and start chatting to us as a working
group so again forming our our presence
and community is the first objective the
next is kind of knitting our research
process and so this is I think an area
where there's awesome opportunity to
collaborate across the number of
organizations which is doing kind of a
census of the many many applications
that are developing in this in this
space and kind of the pain points and
needs and taxonomy of how they're
approaching this and also working with
other groups so for example like the
dynamic theater capabilities group and
other other areas maybe lit p2p to talk
about like actually publishing some of
the best practices the ways that people
are are engaging in this space and
hopefully also defining like RFPs for
fixing some of these pain points that's
something that I've also kind of like
put myself on the hook for role as like
a partner in maybe drafting a work plan
of some sort that we can kind of help
have other people throughout the
community improve our ability inside
IVFs the p2p the wider ecosystem to
improve some of these tooling I'm kind
of one that when that comes to mind
already is this idea of having like peer
to peer discovery without having to
choose some already set up Wi-Fi network
or something like that and there were a
number of conversations last week in the
limb p2p week about Bluetooth on Friday
and so we're gonna have another chat
because roll was already gone and I was
also not there in these meetings so
we're gonna have another chat later this
week if you're super excited about a
Bluetooth or equivalent kind of
peer-to-peer local discovery transport
in the p2p we'll find a time for that
sync to happen with some folks on a limb
p2p side and I'm happy to have more
people in that conversation I'm kind of
coming at it from the point of like what
what do we need to exist from a product
perspective but if others have more
technical constraints that would be
really useful to include as well yeah
and our final objective is engaging with
the wider community I feel like that's
already starting to happen which is
great organically in this meeting but
terry has an objective around actually
setting a date for the next offline camp
which I'm super excited to attend and
I'm sure many people in this forum are
champing at the bit to get on board as
well but also engaging with other
organizations to make sure that as we
boot this group and do this research
that we're learning from their best
practices and collaborating as much as
possible so anyone has you know that's
kind of walking through what we have
it's very similar to what we had at the
end of last quarter anyone have any
ideas edits Corrections suggestions
stuff that they're working on that they
want to see documented here or do they
want to add themselves as like hey I
want to help contribute to some of these
these efforts would you like a quick
update on mine would love one that'd be
great
so as I'm a one of four or five
co-organizers for offline camp and
between us we've had conversations with
a few companies already who may be
interested in sponsoring offline camp or
collaborating in various ways so excited
about that I don't think any of them so
far have been specifically interested in
decentralized but we love the support
for offline first in general which is
the focus of this event so that's been
really nice to see and also this one
goes towards the there's one about
publishing the reference materials one
on line six so I know Molly has an
article in mind that will probably put
out through the offline first
publication kind of building on the talk
that she gave recently but I also
reached out to Jonah at project Lantern
and he's planning to connect me not
immediately but once things slowed down
a little over there with someone on
their team who may be able to write
something also for that for that offline
first pub to share a bit about the
project they're working on which is
really cool so actually just at that
borderline yeah you actually call
right with project lantern right so some
overlap there in case in case Terry you
need another another mind to pull into
this conversation he has a lot of really
great insights
fantastic anyone else questions
specifically about that door if like
Jonah's over committed to other things
just feel free to ping me thank you I
appreciate that
awesome anyone else have have items on
their agenda they want to for questions
about kind of what we're prioritizing
I do want to say I'm pretty excited
about row 11 performing the census of
what's out there currently and finding
its economy that week such that we can
classify exactly in the structured
manner what these projects are are
currently working on and how we can best
support them and how we can all
collaborate that I think that's going to
be a great strategy for for a lot of
discussions as well then finding gaps in
the space as well that you know
potential initiatives might help to fill
in absolutely I think there's there's
good opportunity there also to
collaborate some of the work that our
kadhi has been doing just trying to
reach out to lots of people in the ipfs
ecosystem who are you know using that
tooling for a whole ton of different
phases like offline use case in
particular is an area that maybe we can
collaborate on doing that on ramp and
sourcing back like the the findings we
have of what pain points are to kind of
kill two birds with one stone we can
both take advantage of those insights
awesome well given given we don't have
any burning like corrections to make
love that we have enthusiasm at this but
I think well consider our okay ours
finalized for this quarter and we're you
know already and in flight on actually
executing on them which is great but
I'll update our okay are using check
mark we're we're good to go from our cue
and okay our perspective which is great
so switching back to kind of the next
item of business I did want to talk a
little bit more and understand from
folks who may be more from an
application perspective have been
thinking about kind of the the needs for
the peer to peer discovery and truly
since there was this conversation that
started a little bit last week around
Bluetooth Inlet p2p and that's gonna be
continuing on this week or so Jonathan
others in the application space if you
have learnings or insights around from
kind of peer to peer no discovery
perspective what sort of transports you
found really useful or have been
difficult would be useful to encapsulate
those perspectives into what we've been
talking about they're kind of the two
main use cases I've been seeing in my
head trying to bucket them is one kind
of like the DAP use case of you have two
two nodes with for example maybe
textiles a good example where you have
like this mobile photo sharing
application you have two nodes and they
both go offline and then they are they
happen to be within Bluetooth distance
of each other or they're actually on the
same partitions network so they're not
connected to the rest of the network but
they're both in the same area how do I
using the same DAP that you know maybe
already is configured in some way
finding these two nodes and enable them
to form a channel and share content back
and forth so we you know we in our
little happy dab edge of the world
desertedisland
case can still share photos back and
forth on textile whereas the other case
is you know I'm completely offline and I
want to like to sync a set of content
between my phone and my computer maybe
not even using the same
tributon application but like hey it
would be great if instead of having to
open this file on every single one of my
offline devices before I go on my plane
flight then I could just you know make
sure it's cached on one and then
magically get access to all of the same
content from every different one of my
devices or anyone who is nearby with me
so those are two to use case I have been
thinking about are there others that are
in your and dear to people's hearts that
don't seem to fit into that space
you
um yeah so um when working with
communities primarily that exists
entirely offline so villages in the
middle of the jungle or it takes like
eight hours on a canoe to get there and
they've been doing a lot of work with
collecting data about oil spills and
also doing mapping of their territories
like animal tracks and things that are
in the jungle and it's really important
for all of this stuff to work offline
and also be able to synchronize the same
sets of data and changes to that data in
a two-way fashion so not just thinking
about like my personal data being
accessible when I'm offline but actually
being able to change data while I'm
offline and then synchronize those
changes of someone else who's
potentially change the same exact data
while they're offline this is a case
similar to get or other kinds of version
control systems
yeah like Sierra tt's using that like
conflict free data types well in this
case I don't see our DTS can be useful
but often people want to be able to
resolve the rich conflicts themselves
because it's like a collaborative
environment where maybe a CRT table do
like fifty or seventy-five percent of it
but good that's a good clarification
another one that I'm thinking about is
particularly for these four locations
and so on that are potentially within
this context that curry says is
describing collecting data or are
generating data in isolated locations as
they travel around it potentially in
country right and in common contact they
come in view of other devices that are
able to transport that data further on
advanced one point where it can be
connected this is very similar to sneak
Annette's you know concept of sneaker
medicine or is only a scuttlebutt itself
right so this ability to relay data
across and across a federated network
that can potentially reach its final
destination as people yes because India
and for this for years we're using USB
sticks primarily for
one of the things that we really want
and don't have is a way to read and
write data from the node process
directly to a USB that is inserted into
the micro USB on the phone so in Latin
America it's really common for people to
have a USB stick that has a micro USB on
one side and regular USB that goes in
the computer on the other so you can
stick that micro USB into one phone put
the data onto it and then put that into
a computer on the other side there
aren't really good libraries for doing
that right now pretty much as it has to
be written in Java to write data
directly there also I think for serial
serializing data to disk and then
reading it back out we've kind of
created our own ad hoc methods for doing
that over hyper core which is a
different thing for my PFS but maybe
that's something that you might be
interested in and we've also been
looking at Bluetooth and Andres salts
has been doing some really awesome
amazing work with Bluetooth recently and
so there's a node.js Bluetooth that
connects to react native and they have
it working with many verse which is the
scuttlebutt mobile app gotcha thank you
and are most of so Krista you you have
mostly kind of like a setup that has
like some some Bruce and mobile phones
and summer some laptops is are those all
like recent enough devices that they're
Bluetooth enabled because I know there's
definitely a problem in some areas of
the offline world in which even
Bluetooth isn't something that you can
expect most mobile phones to be enabled
with yeah but yeah mobile phones that
people have Bluetooth enabled yeah you
think about it as over for us it's we
work with particular partners more
people who are you know under-resourced
maybe they can't buy their own phone at
all so we provide people with phones to
provide them with later
you know $100
g4s or whatever but they still they're
pretty good actually I Bluetooth in
pretty good GPS as well absolutely well
actually one other use case idea that
was percolating and I think this was
particularly notable for the p2p and I
think we discussed it last quarter at
some point which is the I'm actually
fully connected to a network and I have
an OK connection but the content that I
want happens to be at a peer that's
local to me and so it's possible for me
to say sync this content locally instead
of going over the network for some call
and this is kind of the how do I have
like peer prioritization when trying to
find content where some of some of these
will have like a lower cost for me from
like in a range of ways like maybe it's
faster maybe it just it's gonna be less
costly for my data plan like other other
options like that so how can I do some
sort of like local first check when
trying to find some content on the
network
yeah totally that makes a lot of sense
it's 7 or 2 I would say the concept of
airdrop as well
on Macs right where you can always like
have use a Internet service to transfer
that data across those two devices but
if you happen to be colonized and drop
just magically works right so it's
somewhat similar to that yeah yeah if
I don't remember if I mentioned this on
the previous call but at one of the
offline camps recently some of the
attendees built something they called
pure drop which is for all devices not
just mac related for related stuff which
was kind of cool so it was built using
some sort of peer-to-peer stuff I could
try to find the link if anyone's
interested I'm interested
that's my classic problem I think both
both devices I have an Android and iOS
and like they never talk to each other
it's the worst excited having to sync
all of my photos to Google photos which
is not like the solution I want in order
to transfer them from one phone to
another
I'm super interested in bootstrapping
problems where a lot of these solutions
require at least some sort of connecting
and down like pre downloading
applications or figuring out a way to
share applications that one person has
with someone else easily you know the
like f-droid is kind of interesting
because you can just have files on USB
sticks and share it that way and you can
share from your clone to another like if
two people are on the local network and
they have a thread open they can
actually share applications to each
other so figuring out ways like what's
the minimum assumption we can make both
of like certain phones like mobile
devices and computers or like
constraints around okay I want to make I
want to hear drop right but like how do
they get here talk to my friend or I
want to check but I don't want them to
have to like download and install like
it's command-line tools just to you know
or like open up the app store so
figuring out you know like what exists
already on these operating systems that
could be like the entry point for
sharing these really cool applications
that when you know we're on this video
call I can go and open tab at the top
left of tab and then download and try
all these things right if I'm just in a
room with someone and we don't have a
network connection like I like that yeah
one that I saw in the ecosystem kind of
along those lines and sure enough on Y
Combinator a couple days ago which is
this Firefox add-on to read and it
effectively acts like a pocket backed by
an ipfs node or a set of IPS nodes so
that you can like pin articles that you
want to read you fess hash and stores
this content you know potentially to the
local I think that's node you have
running on your machine which means that
even if that website disappears or
changes the article or takes article
down you still have that like readable
article format being hosted like pinned
on your own local machine benefit it
also means that if you go offline and
you want to read that content like you
can continue to access that and
effectively your entire to read pocket
list is pre cached offline for you which
is super cool and then I was thinking
well it would be really great if it
wasn't just you know me with my device
and my local IP MS node but it's any of
the devices that are connected to my
local IP FS node problem there is they
need to know the hash they need to know
the hash of this file in the particular
hash of the file that I downloaded
offline at that particular time and who
knows what other dynamic content would
be added to some website such that the
hash one moment to another might be
slightly different because they're
showing a different ad on this on this
particular article or something like
that and so now you have this extra
challenge of how do I effectively
advertise to the people to the nodes
that I'm connected to hey by the way
I've cashed this content this hash
offline and this hash is interesting
like it's kind of this pub/sub use case
of like hey I want to I want to publish
like I have interesting articles feel
free to browse through my interesting
articles and anyone who's connected to
me can and find these instead of me
having to like have a QR code that I
have on my laptop and like use the QR
code with like a mobile phone reader to
pass that hash from one to the other or
I have to be running orbit and has to
chat the hash from one one foot one
device to another device in order to be
able to open that up so that was like a
caterer I was like oh it's like it's
kind of doing this thing that I love but
I wish it could be doing so much more so
and mdns is kind of interesting for this
right like if if you have a personal
home page and that is just a collection
of things you'd like to share with
people locally and you know you're
running a web server on whatever device
that you have simply you like
advertising to the network in any number
of ways right so you can first have
ties that like oh there's a web server
running and here's the the name of that
server and just like your local laptop
or phone but you can get even more like
I don't want to say invasive but more
we're sharing like more brightly sharing
by like running a Samba file server and
that will show up in people's like
windows like in finder in Nautilus and
in Windows Explorer you can like see the
share there and and you know it's
another like kind of side channel right
that's not but it but it comes with the
operating system and it's kind of
assumed to be there and you can just
figure out ways that you want to have
shortcuts and once you have like a
shortcut that someone can link to or
hash that someone can lead to or a web
page they can go to that's mighty soak
up from your machine and then and it's
open up to like yeah you can have
installers you can have more rich
applications but I think mdns is like a
really solid way of starting out whereas
like most of the Bluetooth things that I
see that's also a route through this
right it's a second radio so you don't
need to necessarily like if you are
connected to a network over Wi-Fi like
that this is just like a side channel
but almost everything I've seen on
Bluetooth that isn't like a crazy hack
and correct me if I'm wrong cuz I
haven't done a lot of Bluetooth work
look like they they require like a very
clear I am connecting to device a I'm
connecting to device B now what our
capabilities where is like and being us
kind of does that yes there's trade-offs
I mean with Bluetooth the cool thing is
Auto discovery is a new a new thing it's
actually possible
so that's becoming less of an issue well
could you share with other discoveries
yeah so long a Bluetooth turned on you
can be discovered by other devices to do
huh can you share data with Auto
discovery passively or does it still
require like a how I found this device I
want to do something now I haven't
actually used it myself
but I just recently saw that so
basically there's a three what it's
called but there's a good next
generation Bleu to three years with it
and it's you know it's I think it was
mostly created for like sports fitness
stuff originally like my watch or
something like that but you can also
send data over it people are starting to
hack that and that's what the many verse
that I was talking about before the
mobile app that incorporates Bluetooth
is doing with Auto discovery I haven't
tried it myself but they do say it has
Auto discovery and some data but not a
lot of headache the problem that we've
had with mdns is that some routers block
it and actually quite a few I mean it's
quite common especially in public spaces
or community centers or shared Wi-Fi
spaces which is a lot of where people
are going to be accessing the internet
when they're offline primarily so that
was been one of our one of the issues
we've encountered
that's painful look good to hear
I tried a few of these chat applications
that I you mean I have from any verse
but I didn't test that one out ugly but
I tested out a dryer and there was
another one that Jonah from Lantern was
talking with the create
and I think I'll try and get the name of
it and Brier actually worked
fantastically with no network connection
it it fell back to Roo tooth for
communication and it just worked
regardless of the partitions we created
locally and that was pretty impressive
because I haven't seen you know anything
else do that so it would be interesting
to see if it's using auto-discovery and
bluetooth or there's something else that
I wrote do you have a link to to this I
haven't heard of it it sounds really
interesting
yeah bright I will find a link to Breyer
and the one that didn't work for me
useful to keep track of all of them Jim
I'm curious so we've talked about a
couple of different areas of use cases
and I'm curious if there any coming from
kind of the pure ped world or other
areas that you have visibility into that
you think is an important use case for
us to be prioritizing I think that's the
pier pad it's it's a way of arranging
the CR DTS or building collaborative
apps and you know it gives you all the
you know you need that ability when
you're gone online and offline and
people are editing the same document and
kind of seeing things together so I I
think one of the main selling features
to get people interested in in peer base
which is the library underneath your pad
is going to be talking about the offline
use case and getting some really easy to
to use demos I've done some separate
them else with that they used like react
native and that was pretty it's pretty
interesting because I can share code and
DC RTT stuff in in that ecosystem so I
want to do the same sort of demos with
purity pure base awesome actually do you
want to describe the UM the dev effort
you were doing to make it so that you're
kind of listening for up
like new pure pad files that come online
and caching them such that if the device
that wrote the set of notes goes offline
but they've shared the link with someone
else they can kind of stay being hosted
even if the original creator is offline
yeah the the the previous projects are
done we're done offline we're not trying
to do like separate channels of
communication while offline so it's just
sort of be a classic you know put your
plate your phone in airplane mode be
able to edit the documents you know come
back online in sync so there's the whole
whole other aspect to using like
Bluetooth or something to connect with
decree upon the on-the-fly ad hoc
networks if that's not something that's
exploit yeah but kind of the the relay
server but you guys had had set up to
for example like I create this and if I
am connected to the rest of the night
when I create something even if I go
offline and I'm no longer seating the
pure pad file there is another dev
server that's like listening and real a
pear pad specifically we have a concept
of a pin er which so which you know you
write your document and it'll sink it to
the pin ER and it tells you a little
notification there it's been synced and
then you know you can go offline because
you might want to edit the same document
as somebody else but might not be online
at the same time so you really really
need if the Pinner wasn't there you
would both have to be online at the same
time in order to synchronize I feel like
all right the way that I've seen you
guys do this more from like a UX
perspective of like messaging this
offline transfer is particularly you
know it's highlighting this this
shifting model of like oh it's not about
one single server that like I must be
connected to at all times and it's like
this binary online offline but it's kind
of these two layers of like it has you
know it's
saving to my device it's you know being
replicated by some other network and
then it's being seen by other nodes that
are collaborating yeah I think that's
the the UX challenge is gonna be really
I think the UX challenge has to go hand
in hand with like teaching people the
concepts because like literacy because
people are used to standard
client-server model there's a website of
hosted in the data center somewhere and
they just assume that they've entered
stuff in the web form and it's all saved
for them but in in a true creative peer
model like who's running the
infrastructure like everybody's running
the infrastructure like if if the Pinner
is not there you can still collaborate
but but the data might not be around if
everybody's not online so how do people
people need to understand that and if
the UI is not clear about it if the UI
is trying to make it look like it's the
classic web model I think that's almost
like an injustice like people will
assume that their data is safe or that
their data is getting where they think
their data is getting but the data might
not actually be getting there because
they've never been asked to learn the
topology like they don't they don't
understand that there's no server in the
mix sorry but but then we do have these
pinners which are sort of servers so
it's sort of confusing in some ways but
like the Pinner is not like your classic
web service the the Pinner only stores
encrypted content the Pinner knows
nothing like you can't access the the
content without the keys so it's like
people have to sort of understand key
management it just like I I don't want
to try to explain this to my parents
yeah maybe it's six months right now
I've been so I
if pinning is one of those key concepts
that would make sense for proto school
like we're getting we've had a lot of
cool proposals recently for more
advanced tutorials where I feel like
there's a little bit of scaffolding
messaging and someone else as I was
talking about a different tutorial
recently someone else's yeah but the
pinyon thing is gonna be confusing and
they'll think it's this way and it's not
so that's something that might be
interesting to kind of build a layer in
um in the offline first like offline
camp we've talked a lot about this sort
of the user experience of being offline
in here it's even more complicated with
being decentralized that's like it was
my data safe is it not is it comparable
to some version of saving I've ever
heard of so that like coming up with the
vocabulary like the user experience
vocabulary for that is one of the things
that we've worked on in that community
that maybe we could help with here I'd
be really interested in engaging in that
conversation Terry I've been trying to
wrap my own head around all of the
different pinning models that IP of us
supports and I'm sure there's even other
examples in in other parts of the
distributed kind of space of how to
think about this and how to think about
which pinning strategy would make the
most sense for your application or your
personal need or whatever it is and and
how to reason about that given what are
coming some like obvious things that you
would think of but how to translate it
into what you need technically you're
set up it's like something I've been
thinking about and would love to you
know think about that in the space with
other humans who have their their own
perceptions and ideas
yeah and I'm someone who doesn't
understand it but I'm happy to be the
guinea pig that you try to explain it to
me and I try to explain it back in
English and then you say oh no oh dear
no let's try it again and we just go
back and forth Jim yeah specifically the
pinning like peering into the future the
way I think it's going to end up working
is this going to be it's going to
actually tie into your like identity
like when you go on your phone you'd be
like all the apps all the websites and
things you into
act with that are distributed they'll
connect to your your identity somehow or
your look you might have like a box at
home that you store all your files on
and you just every every after you want
to use the files somehow get the pin
back at home but you might be like you
might work for a company and your
company might be safe hey everything you
work on at work we will also keep
replicas of it around and there's going
to be have to be like these sort of
little channels connected and I think
when the when the whole future sort of
happens its people will have people will
need to understand the concepts for when
it goes wrong but if everything goes
right they won't really have to deal
with it like just be sort of like they
can be really sort of lazy without
they've managed to data so that's sort
of the dream yeah we've been thinking
about this also in the offline case
because people do get to internet they
want to send their files to some backup
server but for them it feels more like a
backup it's like it's a backup server
that doesn't have it it's like no
knowledge it doesn't have access to your
data
but there's backup somewhere and it's
when you come if you ever lose your
phone or like something bad happens it's
there if you have the key somewhere to
open it later so trying to I think that
you're right in that way that there is
going to be some knowledge of key
management that will have to be at least
in this stage have to be have to be
known but it can be kind of explained
like if there's a safe with your data
somewhere you kind of have to keep the
key you might want to keep a copy of
your key somewhere like under your bed
or something I don't like you I can have
access to that safe this discussion that
we having and the way that we started
talking about transports we continue
talking about services we continue
talking about
you X and we're talking about the data
plane itself you know it's making me
think that really we should be striving
to maybe conceptualize a stack of
reference stock so that we can have
discussions that target you know
specific areas and these areas can
evolve and we can tease out what's
behind them what what's available what
is the state of BR and what are the
projects that have addressed or no
normal aspects in for example but they
complain you know it can date in the
data frame can revolve around
Pinner services can revolve around a
number of things federated services
whatever and I got there are so many
approaches so many architectures behind
and de science behind these things that
it might and maybe this is what you're
hinting like maybe it ties into the
concept of autonomy as well for projects
right so I'm thinking about I gets
coming to my mind you know when you
normally like when you look around and
you see architecture diagrams and you
see you know stat like stat diagrams I
think it could be interesting to build a
common vocabulary so that around you
know the different layers that compose
the offline endeavor yeah I'm sure that
everyone has a different picture in
their head when they hear the word pin
based on their personal interactions
with pinning things based on you know
how they think about the technology
itself and its influence Ingrid
Barrington gave a lot of really good
classes on thinking about networks her
and Sir Ian Maffeo who's an interesting
artist and researcher that had Pete that
I ran through their class like they
shared they published their class and
then I went and I being taught it to a
bunch of high schoolers or no they were
middle school yeah they were really
young that was thinking about networking
and thinking about networks and like we
started with like pipe cleaners and like
foam blocks and modeled out the physical
like what is connecting and how they're
connecting and then talked about okay so
then what are you actually sharing you
know like it might be sharing a picture
from your phone it might be sharing your
location whatever how that gets
someplace and then there is definitely
space within that modeling exercising
within that class to talk about you know
or to at least introduce the concepts
not like describe the entire thing but
introduce the concept of you know this
is the information you're sharing but
you might only want to share it with one
person so we like wrap it up in a you
know lot and you could you don't have to
go to so into detail about the exchange
encryption but it won't feel unnatural
if someone wants to uncover what's
happening if you kind of like keep those
hooks in the context of other parts of
the stack and context of other types of
you know learning the goal that exercise
this is to talk about power structures
and how they reflect like physicality of
spaces but the at the end of it the
students had a much stronger like or
team knowledge of you know broadcasting
SSIDs and what it means to connect to a
network and things like that didn't they
didn't seem to trip up on me like
individual concepts some months I think
this a really
question they're like what are the base
underlying concepts that we can really
easily transfer to users of these
networks that just like feels intuitive
and what things can we like you know
managed to hide under the hood and not
force all of the users of these tools to
have to think about in their heads
because there's definitely there's some
stuff that like it's gonna need to be
exposed otherwise you're never going to
be able to debug your system and figure
out what's going wrong but there's a lot
of complexity here and I think there's
there's like a line we're gonna have to
walk in best practices for these tools
to communicate the right subset of
things that make things intuitive and
have the like an easy to approach
understanding of how things are working
now I would just stay away from
metaphors as much as possible because
like it's really easy while teaching to
underestimate the ability of the people
who are learning and to try and that
that feeling to try and hide the
complexity because you know it's okay to
give like misinformation in the sense
that like you're sharing an incomplete
picture of what's happening but to you
know it's great if one of the students
says that's you know that's not wholly
correct or they discover later that you
you write about what a file was you know
like like a really good exercise is to
answer the question what is a file
right I got asked this in one of my
classes and it was the best class I ever
had because like I thought I had a good
grasp on a lot of file ones and there
are so many ways to think about it and
so many ways to share that thinking and
explore it that like you know some
students were you know let's open up a
file in like let's open up the sound
file in paint and it's like open up this
picture in audacity and like to start
like just changing bits and the text
editor and really just like what does it
mean to you know have a name for a file
where is that store like all these
things
it's okay that there's fractal
complexity and and as long as like we
know why they're learning this and if
it's too like implement a cool
application then you only need to go as
far as you know what is the bare minimum
concepts which I think a couple of us
have tried to like say it'd be really
nice to just have a like you weird cloud
that stack a matrix of smart concepts
and how we're defining them so that it's
it's not just assumed that anyone coming
into this space they'll know all the
vocabulary and not just for that because
also for us internally because it's
gonna help us reason about implications
of particular transport for example this
particular general hitting strategy
right how do I first get to the to the
machine that's actually gonna print out
data that's gonna require some work from
the transport itself and depending on
the pinning strategy itself and you know
the potential latency or the chunking or
whatever that might impact the way that
I you know just play progress to the
user on the uxm right so really taking a
decision at what level of the stack has
implications of words in InTown words or
to think of it as a tag as a major
whatever you want to know whatever
foreign shade you wanna give it at this
point but it really it cross-linked
there are cross links across the entire
you know domain that and yeah that just
need to be modeled out and reasoned
about right so having a common
vocabulary to find those different those
like implications this would be awesome
fantastic so we're just just about out
of time we've one minute left but kind
of another item that I've pulled out
from this conversation is that we kind
of need taxonomy x' on two different
layers there's a taxonomy of like
understanding the many different and use
cases that offline applications are
trying to support and seeing if we can
cluster some of those in the method by
which they're trying to solve these
needs and then the taxonomy of like the
stack itself and how to reason about
different components of those
applications in a way that we can
you know talk for example the one that
comes to mind is like the ipfs ecosystem
of things and like where the thin waist
is and this protocol and which things
you can plug and play kind of one-to-one
versus like you know you need something
at this layer of the stack and you need
to choose something how do you make that
choice and what are the pros and cons of
the various options you can slot in
there sounds like we need to find a way
to reason ourselves and name these
things so that we can communicate
effectively so I've added those na and
needs from this group in queue one
section I think we're well maybe I'll
try and book some time time with you to
just brainstorm what some of these
things might be and kind of fleshed out
a little bit more but I thought this was
awesome thank you all so much for a
fantastic second weekend meeting and
looking forward to our next one in
February thank you everybody
see you then Thanks awesome thanks guys
bye